Serverless changelog Jan 13, 2025 (#258)
elastic/docs-content: serverless/pages/serverless-changelog.asciidoc

For serverless changes in Cloud Console, refer to https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/cloud/current/ec-release-notes.html[Elasticsearch Service Documentation: Release notes].

[discrete]
[[serverless-changelog-01132025]]
=== January 13, 2025

[discrete]
[[deprecations-01132025]]
==== Deprecations

> * Remove all legacy risk engine code and features ({kibana-pull}201810[#201810])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Remove all legacy risk engine code and features ({kibana-pull}201810[#201810]).
```

[discrete]
[[features-enhancements-01132025]]
==== Features and enhancements

> * Bring back last alert status change to flyout ({kibana-pull}205224[#205224]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Adds last alert status change to Elastic Security Serverless flyout ({kibana-pull}205224[#205224]).
```

* Case templates are now GA ({kibana-pull}205940[#205940]).

> * Format JSON messages in Observability Logs profile ({kibana-pull}205666[#205666]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Adds format to JSON messages in Elastic Observability Serverless Logs profile ({kibana-pull}205666[#205666]).
```

> * Use inference connector in security AI features ({kibana-pull}204505[#204505]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Adds inference connector in Elastic Security Serverless AI features ({kibana-pull}204505[#204505]).
```

> * Enable inference connector for Auto Import in Elastic Security Serverless ({kibana-pull}206111[#206111]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Adds inference connector for Auto Import in Elastic Security Serverless ({kibana-pull}206111[#206111]).
```

> * Feature Flag Support for Cloud Security Posture Plugin in Elastic Security Serverless ({kibana-pull}205438[#205438]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Adds Feature Flag Support for Cloud Security Posture Plugin in Elastic Security Serverless ({kibana-pull}205438[#205438]).
```

> * Sync ML saved objects to all spaces ({kibana-pull}202175[#202175]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Adds the ability to sync Machine Learning saved objects to all spaces ({kibana-pull}202175[#202175]).
```

> * Improve messages for recovered alerts in Transforms({kibana-pull}205721[#205721]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Improves messages for recovered alerts in Machine Learning Transforms ({kibana-pull}205721[#205721]).
```

[discrete]
[[fixes-01132025]]
==== Fixes

> * Fixes issue where `KEEP` columns are not applied after Elasticsearch error in Discover ({kibana-pull}205833[#205833]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fixes an issue where "KEEP" columns are not applied after an Elasticsearch error in Discover ({kibana-pull}205833[#205833]).
```

> * Fixes document comparison table padding in Discover ({kibana-pull}205984[#205984]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Resolves padding issues in the document comparison table in Discover ({kibana-pull}205984[#205984]).
```

> * Bug bulk import for knowledge base in Elastic Observability Serverless ({kibana-pull}205075[#205075]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fixes a bug affecting bulk imports for the knowledge base in Elastic Observability Serverless ({kibana-pull}205075[#205075]).
```

> * Enhanced the Find API by introducing cursor-based pagination (search_after) to complement the existing offset-based approach ({kibana-pull}203712[#203712]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Enhances the Find API by adding cursor-based pagination (search_after) as an alternative to offset-based pagination ({kibana-pull}203712[#203712]).
```

> * Use architecture-specific elser model in Elastic Observability Serverless ({kibana-pull}205851[#205851]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Updates Elastic Observability Serverless to use architecture-specific Elser models ({kibana-pull}205851[#205851]).
```

> * Fixes timeline dynamic batching in Elastic Security Serverless ({kibana-pull}204034[#204034]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fixes dynamic batching in the timeline for Elastic Security Serverless ({kibana-pull}204034[#204034]).
```

> * Fixes OpenAI, error race condition bug in Elastic Security Serverless ({kibana-pull}205665[#205665]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Resolves a race condition bug in Elastic Security Serverless related to OpenAI errors ({kibana-pull}205665[#205665]).
```

> * List all policies to display integrations properly in Elastic Security Serverless ({kibana-pull}205103[#205103]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Improves the integration display by ensuring all policies are listed in Elastic Security Serverless ({kibana-pull}205103[#205103]).
```

> * Rename color variables in the UI ({kibana-pull}204908[#204908]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Renames color variables in the user interface for better clarity and consistency  ({kibana-pull}204908[#204908]).
```

> * Allows the editor suggestions to be visible when inline docs flyout is open in ES|QL({kibana-pull}206064[#206064]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Allows editor suggestions to remain visible when the inline documentation flyout is open in ES|QL ({kibana-pull}206064[#206064]).
```

> * Ensure the same time range is being used for documents and histogram in ES|QL ({kibana-pull}204694[#204694]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Ensures the same time range is applied to documents and the histogram in ES|QL ({kibana-pull}204694[#204694]).
```

> * Fixes required validation for multi text input field in Fleet({kibana-pull}205768[#205768]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fixes validation for the "required" field in multi-text input fields in Fleet ({kibana-pull}205768[#205768]).
```

> * Fixes bulk actions timing out sometimes in Fleet({kibana-pull}205735[#205735]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fixes timeout issues for bulk actions in Fleet ({kibana-pull}205735[#205735]).
```

> * Handle invalid RRule params and prevent infinite looping in alerts ({kibana-pull}205650[#205650]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Handles invalid RRule parameters to prevent infinite loops in alerts ({kibana-pull}205650[#205650]).
```

> * Fixed privileges display for features and sub features that require all spaces in Fleet({kibana-pull}204402[#204402]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fixes privileges display for features and sub-features requiring "All Spaces" permissions in Fleet ({kibana-pull}204402[#204402]).
```

> * Prevent disabled input change by password manager ({kibana-pull}204269[#204269]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Prevents password managers from modifying disabled input fields ({kibana-pull}204269[#204269]).
```

> * Updates to listing control in UI ({kibana-pull}205914[#205914]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Updates the listing control in the user interface ({kibana-pull}205914[#205914]).
```

> * Consistent help dropdown UI ({kibana-pull}206280[#206280]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Improves consistency in the help dropdown design ({kibana-pull}206280[#206280]).
```
